docs: rewrite structural directives (#40015)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/structural-directives.md

  The `UnlessDirective` creates an [embedded view](api/core/EmbeddedViewRef "API: EmbeddedViewRef") from the Angular-generated `<ng-template>` and inserts that view in a [view container](api/core/ViewContainerRef "API: ViewContainerRef") adjacent to the directive's original `<p>` host element.

  [`TemplateRef`](api/core/TemplateRef "API: TemplateRef") helps you get to the `<ng-template>` contents and [`ViewContainerRef`](api/core/ViewContainerRef "API: ViewContainerRef") accesses the view container.

1. Add an `appUnless` `@Input()` property with a setter.

  <code-example path="structural-directives/src/app/unless.directive.ts" header="src/app/unless.directive.ts (set)" region="set"></code-example>

  Angular sets the `appUnless` property whenever the value of the condition changes.

    * If the condition is falsy and Angular hasn't created the view previously, the setter causes the view container to create the embedded view from the template.

    * If the condition is truthy and the view is currently displayed, the setter clears the container, which disposes of the view.

>   The complete directive is as follows:
> 
>   <code-example path="structural-directives/src/app/unless.directive.ts" header="src/app/unless.directive.ts (excerpt)" region="no-docs"></code-example>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The complete directive is as follows:

<code-example path="structural-directives/src/app/unless.directive.ts" header="src/app/unless.directive.ts (excerpt)" region="no-docs"></code-example>
```

A minor change--the completed directive doesn't need to be part of the steps. It's more of a conclusion to the section.

# Writing structural directives

You can write your own structural directives to shape or reshape the DOM's structure by adding, removing, or manipulating DOM elements.

> When you write your own structural directives, you can also customize template type checking for your template.

Reviewer 2: > When you write your own structural directives, you can also customize template type checking for your template.

This is actually an API/feature for _all_ directives, not just structural directives.

1. To verify that the directive works, click the button to change the value of `condition`.

  <div class="lightbox">
    <img src='generated/images/guide/structural-directives/unless-anim.gif' alt="UnlessDirective in action">
  </div>

<hr />

{@a shorthand}
{@a asterisk}

## Structural directive shorthand

The asterisk, `*`,  syntax on a structural directive, such as `*ngIf`, is shorthand that Angular interprets into a longer form.
Angular transforms the asterisk in front of a structural directive into an `<ng-template>` that surrounds the host element and its descendants.

The following is an example of `*ngIf` that displays the hero's name if `hero` exists.

<code-example path="structural-directives/src/app/app.component.html" header="src/app/app.component.html (asterisk)" region="asterisk"></code-example>

The `*ngIf` directive moves to the `<ng-template>` where it becomes a property binding in square brackets, `[ngIf]`.

The rest of the `<div>`, including its class attribute, moves inside the `<ng-template>`.

<code-example path="structural-directives/src/app/app.component.html" header="src/app/app.component.html (ngif-template)" region="ngif-template"></code-example>

> Angular does not render the first form, but adds only the finished <div> and a comment to the DOM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Angular does not create a real `<ng-template>` element, instead rendering only the `<div>` and a comment node placeholder to the DOM.
```
The `div` was missing code marks so it wasn't showing up. I also proposed a couple of tweaks to terminology here to be more specific.

```html
<!--bindings={
  "ng-reflect-ng-if": "[object Object]"
}-->
<div _ngcontent-c0>Mr. Nice</div>

```

The following example compares the shorthand use of the asterisk in `*ngFor` with the longhand `<ng-template>` form:

<code-example path="structural-directives/src/app/app.component.html" header="src/app/app.component.html (inside-ngfor)" region="inside-ngfor"></code-example>

> Other modifiers on the host element, in addition to the `ngFor` string, remain in place as the element moves inside the `<ng-template>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here, everything related to the `ngFor` structural directly apply to the `ng-template`. All other bindings and attributes on the element apply to the `<div>` element within the `ng-template`.
```
Slight rewording I think makes the split a bit more clear (stuff related to the structure directives vs. everything else)

In this example, the `[class.odd]="odd"` stays on the `<div>`.

The `let` keyword declares a [_template input variable_](guide/built-in-directives#template-input-variable) that you can reference within the template.
The input variables in this example are `hero`, `i`, and `odd`.
The parser translates `let hero`, `let i`, and `let odd` into variables named `let-hero`, `let-i`, and `let-odd`.

The `let-i` and `let-odd` variables become `let i=index` and `let odd=odd`.
Angular sets `i` and `odd` to the current value of the context's `index` and `odd` properties.

The parser applies PascalCase to all directives and prefixes them with the directive's attribute name, such as ngFor.

> For example, the ngFor input properties, of and trackBy, become `ngForOf` and `ngForTrackBy`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the `ngFor` input properties, `of` and `trackBy`, map to `ngForOf` and `ngForTrackBy`.
```
Adding code ticks for the APIs. Also, I might use "map to" here instead of "become" since technically the scheme here is Angular mapping the API in the template to the TypeScript API in the directive class.

As the `NgFor` directive loops through the list, it sets and resets properties of its own context object.
These properties can include, but aren't limited to, `index`, `odd`, and a special property
named `$implicit`.

Angular sets `let-hero` to the value of the context's `$implicit` property, which `NgFor` has initialized with the hero for the current iteration.

For more information, see the [NgFor API](api/common/NgForOf "API: NgFor") and [NgForOf API](api/common/NgForOf) documentation.

> ### Preventing display with `<ng-template>`

Reviewer 2: "Preventing display" isn't the the way I would explain this. Instead, I might head this section "Creating template fragments with `<ng-template>`", or even just "Using `<ng-template>`".  The point of `ng-template` isn't about _not_ rendering something, it's about creating a reusable chunk/fragment of template and then manually controlling how that fragment is rendered. 

(AFAIK we haven't historically used the term "template fragment", but IMO that would be an excellent way to describe the concept)

Angular's `<ng-template>` element defines a template that doesn't render anything by default.
With `<ng-template>`, you can render the content manually for full control over how the content displays.

If there is no structural directive and you wrap some elements in an `<ng-template>`, those elements disappear.

> In the following example, Angular erases the middle "Hip!" in the phrase "Hip! Hip! Hooray!" because of the surrounding `<ng-template>`.

Reviewer 2: "erases" isn't quite right here, since it implies that something _was_ there and was removed. Instead, the `ng-template` defines a template fragment that can be grabbed and manually rendered. The best way to think about it is that `ng-template` defines a function, and the return value of that function is rendered DOM/HTML (though I think this concept would be hard to explain in the docs). In a very abstract way, you could imagine a template as JavaScript code that looks like this:
```
<div>One</div>
<ng-template #stamp>Two</ng-template>
<div>Three</div>

would conceptually map to something like

render('div', 'One');
const stamp = createTemplate('Two');
render('div', 'Three');
```
so putting an `ng-template` in your template _defines_ something, but unless you use that variable, so to speak, it's not going to affect what renders.

In reality, you wouldn't put an `ng-template` in such an arbitrary place in your code. Instead, you would use one where some component API calls for it or near where you're going to use it.

Author: Thank you so much for the explanation! I have changed it to:

```
...Angular does not render the middle "Hip!"...
```

# Writing structural directives

> You can write your own structural directives to shape or reshape the DOM's structure by adding, removing, or manipulating DOM elements.

Author: This document is dedicated to writing your own structural directives, and just after the live example link there is a link to `built-in-directives.md` which explains how Angular works with structural directives why you would use them etc. This document assumes a basic understanding of structural directives. This brings up a question though. @aikidave, should we have a pre-reqs section in this doc?

> You can write your own structural directives to shape or reshape the DOM's structure by adding, removing, or manipulating DOM elements.

Reviewer: I think the link back to the built-in directives topic should be sufficient for users to go back and learn more about structural directives. But *thank you*, @TeriGlover, for pointing this out!

  [`TemplateRef`](api/core/TemplateRef "API: TemplateRef") helps you get to the `<ng-template>` contents and [`ViewContainerRef`](api/core/ViewContainerRef "API: ViewContainerRef") accesses the view container.

1. Add an `appUnless` `@Input()` property with a setter.

  <code-example path="structural-directives/src/app/unless.directive.ts" header="src/app/unless.directive.ts (set)" region="set"></code-example>

  Angular sets the `appUnless` property whenever the value of the condition changes.

    * If the condition is falsy and Angular hasn't created the view previously, the setter causes the view container to create the embedded view from the template.

    * If the condition is truthy and the view is currently displayed, the setter clears the container which disposes of the view.

1. The complete directive is as follows:

  <code-example path="structural-directives/src/app/unless.directive.ts" header="src/app/unless.directive.ts (excerpt)" region="no-docs"></code-example>

> 1. Add a `condition` set to `false` in the `AppComponent`.

Author: Hm, not sure how to do this. It's one property that you add with a value of `false`:

```
condition = false;
```

> 1. Add a `condition` set to `false` in the `AppComponent`.

Reviewer: I think the next few steps, starting at 5 and ending at 7, focus more on showing how the directive works. I think @TeriGlover's suggestion has merit. I recommend creating a new subsection, titled "Testing the directive". Have a lead-in sentence, such as: "In this section, you'll update your application to test the Unless directive." Then continue on with the steps.

Happy to discuss further if you have comments or questions!

1. Update the template to use the directive.
  Here, `*appUnless` is on two `<p>` tags with opposite `condition` values, one `true` and one `false`.

  <code-example path="structural-directives/src/app/app.component.html" header="src/app/app.component.html (appUnless)" region="appUnless"></code-example>

  The asterisk, `*`, is shorthand that marks `appUnless` as a structural directive.

  When the `condition` is falsy, the top (A) paragraph appears and the bottom (B) paragraph disappears.
  When the `condition` is truthy, the top (A) paragraph disappears and the bottom (B) paragraph appears.

1. To change and display of the value of `condition` in the browser, add markup that displays the status and a button.

  <code-example path="structural-directives/src/app/app.component.html" header="src/app/app.component.html" region="toggle-info"></code-example>

1. To verify that the directive works, click the button to change the value of `condition`.

  <div class="lightbox">
    <img src='generated/images/guide/structural-directives/unless-anim.gif' alt="UnlessDirective in action">
  </div>

<hr />

{@a shorthand}
{@a asterisk}

## Structural directive shorthand

> The asterisk, `*`,  syntax on a structural directive, such as `*ngIf`, is shorthand that Angular interprets into a longer form.

Reviewer: I agree with @TeriGlover. Let's find one spot to document the shorthand syntax (this spot might be best?). We can link to that section if needed, but I think defining something once per topic (at most) should be sufficient.

Angular transforms the asterisk in front of a structural directive into an `<ng-template>` that surrounds the host element and its descendants.

> The following is an example of `*ngIf` that displays the hero's name if `hero` exists.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following is an example of `*ngIf` that displays the hero's name if `hero` exists:
```

  <code-example path="structural-directives/src/app/app.component.html" header="src/app/app.component.html" region="toggle-info"></code-example>

1. To verify that the directive works, click the button to change the value of `condition`.

  <div class="lightbox">
    <img src='generated/images/guide/structural-directives/unless-anim.gif' alt="UnlessDirective in action">
  </div>

<hr />

{@a shorthand}

## Structural directive shorthand

With Angular's structural directive shorthand, you can use a structural directive in a short, easy-to-read string.
The parser translates that string into attributes on an `<ng-template>`.
For more information on the asterisk syntax, see [How Angular uses the asterisk, `*`, syntax](guide/structural-directives#asterisk).

* The `let` keyword declares a [_template input variable_](guide/built-in-directives#template-input-variable) that you can reference within the template.
The input variables in this example are `hero`, `i`, and `odd`.
The parser translates `let hero`, `let i`, and `let odd` into variables named `let-hero`, `let-i`, and `let-odd`.

> * The parser title-cases all directives and prefixes them with the directive's attribute name, such as `ngFor`.

Reviewer 2: We use "title-case" here, but elsewhere in the docs we say "UpperCamelCase"; both are names for the same thing (which I personally have always referred to as "PascalCase").

> For example, the `ngFor` input properties, `of` and `trackBy`, become `ngForOf` and `ngForTrackBy`.

Reviewer 2: This section seems to have the same goal as the ``How Angular uses the asterisk, `*`, syntax`` subsection below. I feel like the explanation of the content is fragmented between the two, which makes it hard to follow.

Author: Thank you so much for this very helpful feedback. I have worked on these two sections in an attempt to remove any duplicate information and make sure that the explanations are more closely associated with the code example (when you pointed it out I saw that it was disjointed). I haven't squash so you can see the diff more easily. Is this getting closer?
[c357e3b](https://github.com/angular/angular/pull/40015/commits/c357e3b54c76634e40174cab3c2ab923953d4025#diff-20d97a5c224561712282145d515ecbceed282fa9d7eff37dcb6c54c9510f1dedR93)

* As `NgFor` directive loops through the list, it sets and resets properties of its own context object.
These properties can include, but aren't limited to, `index`, `odd`, and a special property
named `$implicit`.

* The code defines the `let-i` and `let-odd` variables as `let i=index` and `let odd=odd`.
Angular sets `i` and `odd` to the current value of the context's `index` and `odd` properties.

* Angular sets `let-hero` to the value of the context's `$implicit` property, which `NgFor` has initialized with the hero for the current iteration.

* For more information, see the API documentation for[`NgFor` API reference](api/common/NgForOf "API: NgFor")and [NgForOf API](api/common/NgForOf).

Structural directive shorthand must meet the following requirements:

<!-- Is the following sentence necessary? -->
- Angular must know about the directive ahead of time so that IDEs can parse it without knowing the underlying semantics of the directive or what directives are present.

> - It must translate to key-value attributes in the DOM.

Reviewer 2: I think this whole block can be removed. Both points are not accurate and I don't think correcting them to be accurate would add any value to the content.

{@a asterisk}

### How Angular uses the asterisk, `*`, syntax

Angular transforms the asterisk, `*`, in front of a structural directive into an `<ng-template>` element that surrounds the host element and its descendants.

> Angular's `<ng-template>` is an element for rendering HTML that Angular never displays directly.

Reviewer 2: I would probably word this differently. Something roughly like
```markdown
Angular's `<ng-template>` element defines a template that doesn't render anything by default,
but can instead be rendered manually in your code, giving you full control over how this content
renders.
```
One thing that would be nice to convey is that, since you're in control of how to render the template content, you can decide not to render it at all, or render it multiple times based on whatever conditions you want. The word "template" is unfortunately overloaded here, but it's a template in the sense that it's a stamp, and it's up to the user to decide how to stamp it out.

Author: Thank you for expanding on that. 
Does this work?

```
Angular's `<ng-template>` element defines a template that doesn't render anything by default.
With `<ng-template>`, you can render the content manually for full control over how the content displays.
```

(I found myself repeating the word rendering a lot here and in the surrounding text, so I opted for "displays". I also broke it up into a couple of shorter sentences.)

Reviewer 2: Yep, that works

  </tr>
</table>

{@a directive-type-checks}

<!-- To do follow up PR: move this section to a more general location because it also applies to attribute directives. -->
## Improving template type checking for custom directives

You can improve template type checking for custom directives by adding template guard properties to your directive definition.
These properties help the Angular template type checker find mistakes in the template at compile time, which can avoid runtime errors.

* A property `ngTemplateGuard_(someInputProperty)` lets you specify a more accurate type for an input expression within the template.
* The `ngTemplateContextGuard` static property declares the type of the template context.

> This section provides example of both kinds of type-guard property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section provides examples of both kinds of type-guard property.
```

To help the compiler catch template type errors, you should specify as closely as possible the required type of a directive's input expression when it occurs inside the template.

A type guard function narrows the expected type of an input expression to a subset of types that might be passed to the directive within the template at run time.
You can provide such a function to help the type-checker infer the proper type for the expression at compile time.

For example, the `NgIf` implementation uses type-narrowing to ensure that the
template is only instantiated if the input expression to `*ngIf` is truthy.
To provide the specific type requirement, the `NgIf` directive defines a [static property `ngTemplateGuard_ngIf: 'binding'`](api/common/NgIf#static-properties).
The `binding` value is a special case for a common kind of type-narrowing where the input expression is evaluated in order to satisfy the type requirement.

To provide a more specific type for an input expression to a directive within the template, add an `ngTemplateGuard_xx` property to the directive, where the suffix to the static property name, `xx`, is the `@Input()` field name.

> The value of the property can be either a general type-narrowing function based on its return type, or the string `"binding"` as in the case of `NgIf`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The value of the property can be either a general type-narrowing function based on its return type, or the string `"binding"`, as in the case of `NgIf`.
```

A type guard function narrows the expected type of an input expression to a subset of types that might be passed to the directive within the template at run time.
You can provide such a function to help the type-checker infer the proper type for the expression at compile time.

For example, the `NgIf` implementation uses type-narrowing to ensure that the
template is only instantiated if the input expression to `*ngIf` is truthy.
To provide the specific type requirement, the `NgIf` directive defines a [static property `ngTemplateGuard_ngIf: 'binding'`](api/common/NgIf#static-properties).
The `binding` value is a special case for a common kind of type-narrowing where the input expression is evaluated in order to satisfy the type requirement.

To provide a more specific type for an input expression to a directive within the template, add an `ngTemplateGuard_xx` property to the directive, where the suffix to the static property name, `xx`, is the `@Input()` field name.
The value of the property can be either a general type-narrowing function based on its return type, or the string `"binding"`, as in the case of `NgIf`.

> For example, consider the following structural directive that takes the result of a template expression as an input.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, consider the following structural directive that takes the result of a template expression as an input:
```

  </tr>
</table>

{@a directive-type-checks}

> ## Improving template type checking for custom directives

Reviewer 2: Not related to this PR, but while I'm looking at it: @aikidave this is type checking content that very much belongs in a comprehensive guide to directives, but doesn't need to be touched in any kind of introductory docs.

Author: Agreed. It is pretty advanced.

Reviewer 2: I don't know why this didn't occur to me the first time I looked at this, but this content is actually for _all_ directives, not just structural directives. As a follow up, we should probably move this to a more general location.

Author: Added a to do note as a reminder.
